# Advancement Notes

Advancement Talk given on 5/5/23. [Final presentation](file:///Users/andrewdavidson/Documents/UCSC/PhD/advancementTalk/advancementPresentation-final.pptx)

copies of qualificaiton report (QE), NOMINATIONS FOR DISSERTATION READING COMMITTEE (drc) forms can be found at /Users/andrewdavidson/Documents/UCSC/PhD/admin

advancement proposal and preliminary slides can be found on ucsc gdrive "my drive" > PhD Advancement.

- [advacement proposal gdoc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1I4NWwF2m4UfX-q0JttqMRl8vxfEl-k9h9ziDVbWuRC4/edit?usp=sharing)

## QE report comments

"Congratulations, the committee unanimously agreed that you gave a
good presentation and provided a good writeup, and we are therefore
delighted to give you a pass in your advancement to candidacy. That
said, we did have some specific suggestions that we would like you to
incorporate into your written proposal. We would ask you send us this
revised proposal within six weeks.

Firstly, for Aim 1, which describes RNA-seq quantification across a
large compendium of cancer and normal human tissues, we would like to
see a description of related efforts, such as Recount3 and the
Xena/Toil project. We would then like to see a justification of why
this reprocessing is necessary, relating the unique aspects of the
extracellular RNA data and the need to quantify transposable element
expression. In general, it is essential to more fully contextualize
your work.

For Aim 2, which describes a method to predict the presence of
malignancy or other pathology from extracellular RNA-seq data, we
would like to see the following. First, we would like for you to
include the pancreatic extracellular RNA-seq data as preliminary work.
Including this proof of principle is important to demonstrate your
ability to get meaningful information from extracellular RNA-seq.
Secondly, the committee felt that the presented formulation as a k-way
deconvolution/classification problem was extremely ambitious. We
believe it would also be useful to consider building binary or
lower-degree classifiers to predict the presence or absence of cancer.
Related to this, it is important for the proposal to discuss the
training with the extracellular RNA-seq, specifically, how many
samples you plan to train on and what their composition is in terms of
cancer state, age, sex, and other relevant covariates."

